{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw7900
\paperh11300
\margl0
\margr160
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\b\fs36 ATI Mach64 PCI-Bus Display Adapter\

{\b0\fs12{\NeXTGraphic36 3PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height60
}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs24 \

{\b\fs28\up20{\NeXTGraphic39 video.tiff \width880 \height880
}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\li360\fc1\cf1\up20  
\up40 Display Devices
\b0\fs24\up0 \
\
This PCI bus device driver automatically detects the target adapter.  \

\fs16 \
\

\b\fs24\fc0\cf0 Supported Hardware: \

\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\b0\fs16\fc1\cf1 	
\fs24\fc0\cf0 ATI Mach64 based display
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\li360\fc0\cf0  
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc0\cf0 a
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\li360\fc0\cf0 dapter
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc1\cf1 s with 2MB memory
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs16 \
\

\fs24\fc0\cf0 This graphics driver is designed to support on-board as well as PCI-Bus display controller subsystems which use the 
\b Mach64
\b0  Graphics controller chipset and. Both VRAM and DRAM variants are supported (note that DRAM adapters are susceptible to video "noise").\

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li720\fc0\cf0 	\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\li360\fc0\cf0 \

\fs24 This driver supports the following 2MB display modes. \

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li720\fc0\cf0 	\

\b\fs20 8-bit Color
\b0 	
\b 16-bit Color	32-bit color
\b0 \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs20\li720\fc0\cf0 640x480	640x480	640x480\
60, 72, 75 Hz	60, 72, 75 Hz	60, 72, 75 Hz\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs20\li720\fc0\cf0 800x600 	800x600 	800x600\
60, 72, 75 Hz	60, 72, 75 Hz	60, 72, 75 Hz\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs20\li720\fc0\cf0 1024x768 	1024x768 \
60, 70, 75 Hz	60, 70,  75 Hz\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs20\li720\fc0\cf0 1280x1024	\
60, 70, 75 Hz	\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs20\li720\fc0\cf0 1600x1200	\
60, 72, 75 Hz	\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc0\cf0 \
\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\b\fs24\li360\fc0\cf0 Note:
\b0  When using any of the 32-bit color modes, the console window (which appears after you type "console" at the Login Window) may be discolored, usually with the text and borders appearing a light red color.  This will not affect normal operation (i.e., when running under the Window Server). \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\b\li360\fc0\cf0 \
Note:
\b0  If the display appears dim in one of the 32-bit color modes, or if the Brightness slider in the Preferences app does not work in the 16-bit and 32-bit color modes, then the host adapter does not support gamma correction. This behavior 
\fc1\cf1 is due to the absence of a feature on the adapter itself; no software work around is available. \

\b\fc0\cf0 \
Supported Displays:  
\b0 NeXT designs and tests its display adapter device drivers using very high frequency displays that can support display modes with very high resolutions and non-interlaced refresh rates, such as the NEC 5FG, NEC 6FG, and Nokia Multigraph 445X.  Read the owner's guide that comes with your display to ensure it can support the display mode you set in Configure.\

\fs16 \

\b\fs24 Warning:
\b0  Not all Mach64 display adapters support all of the display modes listed above. The driver does not always detect when a mode has been selected which the display adapter does not support. Selecting a display mode which the display adapter does not support may result in an unreadable display at boot time. 
\fc1\cf1 If this occurs, reboot the machine specifying "config=Default" at the boot prompt.  The machine should reboot in Default VGA mode, allowing you to run Configure.app and select a different display mode.\

\fs16\fc0\cf0 \

\b\fs24 Warning:
\b0   Some vendors claim that you can use their display adapters at display modes with resolutions and refresh rates that exceed what their RAMDACs can support.  You can permanently damage your display adapter and computer by doing this.  Read the owner's guide that comes with your display adapter or contact its manufacturer to ensure that your adapter's RAMDAC can support the display mode you set in Configure.\

\fs16 \

\b\fs24 Warning:
\b0   If you plan to change display adapters, be sure to use the Configure application to change the display driver to Default VGA Adapter before you remove the old display adapter (see NeXTanswer 1824 for details on changing display adapters). 
\fs16\fc1\cf1 \

\fc0\cf0 \

{\fs12\fc1\cf1{\NeXTGraphic3008 842445_PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height20
}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs16 \

\b\fs24 See also\

\b0\fs16 \

\fs24\fi-360\li720 ·	"Add a Device" in Configure's on-line help.\

\fs16 \

\fs24 ·	See NeXTanswer 1824 for general information on installing and configuring device drivers. \

}
