{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\paperw7900
\paperh9880
\margl0
\margr160
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs36\li360\fc1\cf1 DEC Generic 21X4X Network Adapter Driver\

{\b0\fs12{\NeXTGraphic41 PixelRule1.tiff \width7180 \height60
}
,}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs24 \

{\b\fs28\up20{\NeXTGraphic44 Network.tiff \width880 \height880
}
,}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\li360\fc1\cf1\up40 Network Devices
\b0\fs24\up0 \
This device driver is designed to run on an Intel-based computer running Rhapsody Release 5.0. It automatically detects the target adapter.\

\fs16 \
\

\b\fs24\fc0\cf0 Supported Hardware: 
\b0 This device driver is designed to support PCI-bus network adapters or on-board network adapters based on a DEC DECchip 21X4X LAN Controller. This includes the 21040, 21041, 21140, 21142, and 21143 LAN Controllers.\

\fs16 \

\fs24 This device driver relies on a Serial-ROM (SROM) integrated on the network adapter for network address and media information. The driver will not function correctly if the SROM is absent, or if the information contained in the SROM is in legacy format. The driver will log warning messages if the SROM cannot be properly read or decoded.\

\fs16 \
\

\b\fs24 SROM and Media Reporting:
\b0  During driver initialization, the device driver will read the SROM from the network adapter and generate a list of all supported medium connections. This list is then reported to the user. If Physical Layer devices (PHY) are present, their connection capabilities will also be encoded in SROM and reported as well. The PHY and the LAN Controller communicate through a channel called the Media Independent Interface (MII). During media reporting, a Mii prefix is used for all link status and medium connections related to the PHY.\

\fs16 \

\fs24 Adapters based on the 21040 LAN Controller only stores the network address in SROM. This device driver will always assume \
that the adapter has 10BaseT, 10Base2, and 10Base5 
\fc1\cf1 medium connection capabilities 
\fc0\cf0 when a 21040 based adapter is detected.\

\fs16\fc1\cf1 \
\

\b\fs24\fc0\cf0 Installation and Configuration Steps:\

\b0\fi-380\li740\fc1\cf1 1. 	Install the adapter in the system (if necessary).\
2. 	Log in as root and run Configure.  \
3.	Click on the Network Devices icon at the top of Configure's "Summary of Devices" window.  In the Add Network Devices panel that opens, select the radio button labeled "Show Drivers for Detected Devices" if it is not already highlighted.  \
4.	Select "DEC Generic 21X4X Network Adapter" from the list, and click Add.\
5.	Click on Connector button and select the network connection. If the driver is already loaded, then the Inspector will communicate with the driver to obtain the list of supported medium connections for the adapter. The Inspector will then only display the supported connections in the browser list.\
6. 	Click Done, then click Save, then quit Configure.
\fs16\fi0\li360 \
\
\

\b\fs24\fc0\cf0 Medium Connections:
\b0\fs16 \

\fc1\cf1 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	AutoSense
\b0  - Autosense the medium connections supported by the adapter and dynamically switch to the live medium. AutoSense does not sense 10BaseT No Link Test mode.\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\fs24\fi-380\li740 	For 21040 based adapters, AutoSense senses the 10BaseT, 10Base2 and 10Base5 medium connections in order and select the first live medium. This detection occurs during driver initialization and the medium cannot be switched at run time.\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	AutoSense No Nway
\b0  - Autosense the medium connections supported by the adapter and dynamically switch to the live medium.  Nway negotiation is disabled. AutoSense No Nway does not sense 10BaseT No Link Test mode.\

\fs16 	
\pard\tx3060\tx5400\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\li720\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs24\fi-380\li740\fc1\cf1 	For 21040 based adapters, AutoSense No Nway is equivalent to AutoSense.
\b \

\b0\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	10Base2 (BNC)
\b0  - Select the 10Base2 medium connection (BNC connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	10Base5 (AUI)
\b0  - Select the 10Base5 medium connection (AUI 15-pin connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	10BaseT
\b0  - Select the 10BaseT medium connection (RJ-45 connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	10BaseT Full Duplex
\b0  - Select the 10BaseT Full Duplex medium connection (RJ-45 connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	10BaseT No Link Test
\b0  - Select the 10BaseT medium connection (RJ-45 connector) with no Link Integrity Test. Choose this option if the adapter is connected to a hub which does not generate link pulses to check the link integrity.\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	100BaseTX
\b0  - Select the Fast Ethernet 100BaseTX medium connection (RJ-45 connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	100BaseTX Full Duplex
\b0  - Select the Fast Ethernet 100BaseTX Full Duplex medium connection (RJ-45 connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	100BaseT4
\b0  - Select the Fast Ethernet 100BaseT4 medium connection (RJ-45 connector).\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	100BaseFX
\b0  - Select the Fast Ethernet 100BaseFX medium connection.\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740 	100BaseFX Full Duplex
\b0  - Select the Fast Ethernet 100BaseFX Full Duplex medium connection.\

\fs16\fi0\li360 \
\

{\fs12{\NeXTGraphic4102 PixelRule2.tiff \width7180 \height20
}
,}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs16 	\

\b\fs24 See also\

\b0\fs16 \

\fs24\fi-360\li720 ·	"Add a Device" in Configure's on-line help.\

\fs16 \

\fs24 ·	See NeXTanswer 1824 for general information on installing and configuring device drivers. \

}
