{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\paperw7900
\paperh9000
\margl0
\margr160
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

{\b\fs36{\NeXTHelpMarker1 \markername Sending;}
¬ }\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs36\li360\fc1\cf1 SCSI Tape\

{\b0\fs12{\NeXTGraphic13 494393_PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height60
}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs24 \

{\b\fs28{\NeXTGraphic16 625157_SCSI.tiff \width960 \height860
}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\li360\fc1\cf1\up20 	SCSI Devices
\b0\fs24\up0 \

\fs16 \
\

\b\fs24\fc0\cf0 Supported Hardware: \

\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\b0\fs16\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs24\li360\fc0\cf0 This device driver supports any SCSI Adapter for which NeXT provides device drivers
\pard\tx360\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fi-360\li360\fc0\cf0 .  \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\b\fs24\fi-380\li740\fc0\cf0 Note:
\b0    Be aware of the necessity of proper SCSI termination at both ends of the SCSI bus.\

\fs16\fi0\li360\fc1\cf1 \
\

\b\fs24\fc0\cf0 Configuring the SCSI Tape Driver 
\b0  \

\pard\tx360\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fs16\fi-360\li360\fc0\cf0 \

\fs24 	
\b\fc1\cf1 Note: 
\b0\fc0\cf0 See Configure's Help for general information on running the Configure Application.\

\fs16 	
\b \

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\b0\fs24\fi-380\li740\fc0\cf0 1. 	After you have installed a supported SCSI host adapter, log in as 
\b root
\b0 , start Configure, and click the SCSI icon at the top of Configure's Summary window.  If any string containing "SCSI Tape" is in the list of devices that appears in the window, select the device driver's name, and click Remove.
\b \

\b0 2.	Click Add in the window.  \
3. 	In  the Add SCSI Devices panel that opens, select the radio button labeled "Show All Installed Drivers."  Select "SCSI Tape Drive" from the list, and click Add. \
4.	Click Done, and then click Save. \
5.	Choose Quit from the Configure menu.\
\
\

\b Tape Drive Special Considerations \
\

\b0\fi0\li360 When using Exabyte 8mm tape drives, use either /dev/rxt? (or /dev/nrxt?) or /dev/rst? (or /dev/nrst?) device nodes, where ? is a number.  (EX: /dev/rxt0; /dev/nrxt0; /dev/rst0; /dev/nrst0)\
\
When using Exabyte 4mm tape drive, only use /dev/rst? (or /dev/nrst?) device nodes, where ? is a number.  (EX: /dev/rst0; /dev/nrst0)\

\fs16\fi-380\li740\fc1\cf1 \

{\fs12\fi0\li360{\NeXTGraphic1302 749266_PixelRule.tiff \width7180 \height20
}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs12\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs16 \

\b\fs24 See also\

\b0\fs16 \

\pard\tx720\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\fs24\fi-360\li720\fc1\cf1 ·	"Add a Device" in Configure's on-line help.\

\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\tx3600\tx3960\tx4320\tx4680\tx5040\tx5400\tx5760\tx6120\tx6480\tx6840\tx7200\tx7560\fs16\li360\fc1\cf1 \

\fs24 ·	See NeXTanswer 1824 for general information on installing \
	and configuring device drivers. \
\
·	See NeXTanswer 1806 for additional information on the\
	scsitape driver.\
\
·	Read the man page for st (in a terminal window, type
\b  man st
\b0 ).\
\
·	Read the man page for stblocksize (in a terminal window, type
\b  \
	man stblocksize
\b0 ). Stblocksize is a program that can be run to \
	set the tape drive to fixed block size.\

}
